A network can be defined as two or more computers 
Two or more devices connected by a cable or by wifi

Why do we need devices to communicate?
1- To share resources such as printers or scanners
2- To exchange files between computers
3- Allow electronic communication (email, websites)

A well known example of a network is the internet
An internet is a global network of millions of computers and other network devices 

Network Components
1- Endpoints - Internet capable computer hardware device it can be any device laptops, desktops, workstation, iot devices and virtual environment. 

2- Switches- Key building blocks of any network, it physically connects two or more devices that belong to thesame network, It has multiple ports and can connect multiple devices. They enable devices to share information. There are two types of switches L2 Switch and L3 switch. L2 switch works with MAC address only, L3 switch work with MAC address and IP address. 

3- Routers - At a basic level, a router connects two or more networks together it is a layer 3 device. It uses IP address and it is reponsible for path determination, They aso allow network devices to communicate

4- Servers - A server is a software component or a dedicated hardware that can accept request from multiple clients providing suitable responses after processing these requests. The device that makes the request and recieves a response on the server is called the client. A server is not just a physical computer but a role that a computer takes. Types of server Application server, Database server, DNS server, File server, Mail server, Web server and DHCP server

5- Access points- AP OR Wireless AP is a device that allows wireless devices such as laptops, tabs or mobile phones to connect to a wired network. Devices connected to the access point form a network known as a wireless LAN or WLAN. It is a key component of the WLAN architecture eg Hotspot 

6- Controllers - WLC Wireless LAN Controller is a network device that manages wireless network access points.Switching seamlessly from one access point to another is called roaming. It takes care of authentication, roaming and creating new WLAN's. Main function is to centralize the control of the access points. 
CISCO DNA Controller(Cisco Digital Network Architecture) it is a powerful network controller, management dashboard, centralized internet based network.
IBN (Internet based networking) is a form of network administration that incorporates artificial intelligence (AI), network orchestration and Machine Learning ML to automate administrative tasks across a network. 

7- Firewall and IPS - A network security device that monitors incoming traffic (public to private) or outgoing traffic (private to public) decide whether to block or accept traffic. It protects the network from attack. Firewalls are the first line of defense in any network
IPS (Intrusion Prevention System) is a form of network security that works to detect and prevent identified threats. The IPS can Log, Discard, Redirect and periodically download and update signature database. 

Network Topology Architectures
1- Three Tier
2- Two Tier
3- Spine-Leaf 
4- WAN
5- SOHO
6- On premises and Cloud 

THREE TIER ARCHITECTURE
Suitable for a large campus network, one of the oldest and classic networking models, can be used in large campus network. Enterprise hierarchical campus network design inlude 3 layers (Core layer, Distribution Layer and Access layer)

Access Layer - First Tier, grants end devices access to the network, it is the closest to the end users, generally incorporates layer 2 switches and access points, it is the first layer of defense in the network security architecture. 

Distribution Layer - Middle Layer, serves multiple purpose also called aggregation layer, it moves traffic from the access layer to the core layer and vice versea, it also performs quality of service and security work, multilayer switches

Core Layer- Network backbone, simplest yet most critical part, it consist of high speed network devices, it also routes traffic as fast as possible, it aggregates the traffic from all the distribution layer devices and are designed to interconnect multiple campus components. It provides a very limited set of services designed to be always available 7x24x365 days of service

TWO TIER ARCHITECTURE
More suitable for small to medium size campus networks, there is not much room for growth so the core layer and distribution layer are collapsed. A collapsed core is when the distribution layer and core layer functios are implemented by a single device thereby reducing network cost 

WAN (Wide Area Network) -  A collection of LAN'S or other networks that communicate with one another
LAN is typically owned by an organization, they connect devices within a single building or other small geographical area
WAN is essentially a network of networks the internet is the worlds largest WAN, owned by a service provider, interconnects remote branch offices, transporting data, voice and video. Eg MPLS network, telephone network, cable company or satellite service. 

WAN Topologies
1- Point to Point
2- Hub and Spoke Topology
3- Full Mesh Topology
4- Dual Homed Topology

WAN Technologies 
1- Circuit switched method od communication where there is a dedicated communication path
No other device can use it during the session commonly used for Voice and Data. PSTN or ISDN
2- Packet switched
Data is broken down into smaller units called packets, each packets contains the source and destination address Eg MPLS, Metro Ethernet WAN, ATM 

SOHO Small office Home office Architecture
Mostly used in homes and/or small enterprises

END DEVICES
The network devices that people are most familiar with are called end devices, or hosts. These devices form the interface between users and the underlying communication network.
Some examples of end devices are as follows:
1- Computers (workstations, laptops, file servers, web servers)
2- Network printers
3- Telephones and teleconferencing equipment
4- Security cameras
5- Mobile devices (such as smart phones, tablets, PDAs, and wireless debit/credit card readers and barcode scanners)
6- An end device (or host) is either the source or destination of a message transmitted over the network, as shown in the animation. In order to uniquely identify hosts, addresses are used. When a host initiates communication, it uses the address of the destination host to specify where the message should be sent.

An Internet Service Provider (ISP) provides the link between the home network and the internet. An ISP can be the local cable provider, a landline telephone service provider, the cellular network that provides your smartphone service, or an independent provider who leases bandwidth on the physical network infrastructure of another company.
Many ISPs also offer additional services to their contract subscribers, as shown in the figure. These services can include email accounts, network storage, and website hosting and automated backup or security services.
ISPs are critical to communications across the global internet. Each ISP connects to other ISPs to form a network of links that interconnect users all over the world. ISPs are connected in a hierarchical manner that ensures that internet traffic generally takes the shortest path from the source to the destination.

Many ISPs also offer additional services to their contract subscribers, as shown in the figure. These services can include email accounts, network storage, and website hosting and automated backup or security services.
ISPs are critical to communications across the global internet. Each ISP connects to other ISPs to form a network of links that interconnect users all over the world. ISPs are connected in a hierarchical manner that ensures that internet traffic generally takes the shortest path from the source to the destination.
