Troubleshooting Display and Power Issues 
PIXELS 
A customer is frustrated with their blurry new 4K monitor. You explain that pixels, tiny red, green, and blue (RGB) dots that make up their display, determine image quality, with more pixels providing better detail.
Their blurriness likely stems from low resolution setting snot utilizing all available pixels. To fix this, search for "display resolution" and select Change the resolution of the display. Under Display resolution, select the Recommended level. This will ensure your laptop outputs the full 4K resolution your monitor supports. The figure shows this in Windows 10.

DOT PITCH
A customer reports grainy text on their new 27-inch monitor. You explain that dot pitch (distance between pixels) is likely the cause. Their monitor probably has a high dot pitch, spacing pixels farther apart and creating blurry images.
For a quick fix, search for "clear type", select Adjust ClearType text, and enable it. This optimizes text rendering for clearer reading."
For future purchases, recommend the customer consider monitors with both high resolution and low dot pitch for sharper images

CONTRAST RATIO
A customer with visual impairments asks how to adjust contrast settings on their new Windows laptop. You explain that for accessibility purposes, Windows 11 offers built-in contrast adjustment options.
This is a measurement of how white and how black a monitor can get. A contrast ratio of 1,000:1 displays dimmer whites and more pale blacks than 4,500:1. To help the customer adjust the contrast, search for "contrast", select Contrast themes, and have them turn on a contrast theme by selecting one from the dropdown menu. Options include Aquatic, Desert, Dusk, and Night sky. These themes create high-contrast displays that can make text and interface elements more visible for certain users.
If the customer needs further adjustment, they can customize these themes by clicking Edit next to your selected contrast theme. In the figure, the user is editing the Desert theme. Alternatively, you can adjust contrast directly through your monitor's On-Screen Display (OSD) menu using the physical buttons on your monitor."

ASPECT RATIO
A customer explains that when watching videos, there are black bars on the sides of the screen. They are frustrated because the video looks smaller than expected.
You explain to the customer that an incorrect aspect ratio can cause images to appear stretched or to have black bars on the sides. Using an unsupported aspect ratio can cause display distortion. This can also be an issue when an application does not automatically adjust to widescreen formats.
To adjust this, search for "display resolution" and select Change the resolution of the display. Under Display resolution, select the Recommended level. This will ensure your laptop outputs the full 4K resolution your monitor supports. The figure shows this in Windows 10.

REFRESH RATE
A customer reports their new 144Hz gaming monitor feels laggy and no smoother than their old one.
Refresh rate is expressed in Hertz (Hz) and refers to how often per second your monitor can redraw the screen. You explain to the customer that the issue is probably due to a low refresh rate. Higher refresh rates (120Hz,144Hz, 240Hz) provide smoother motion in games, while the default 60Hz can cause stuttering.
Search for "refresh rate" and then select View advance display info. If the monitor supports different refresh rates, select the drop down menu under Refresh Rate to see if the monitor supports different refresh rates. In the Figure, the Dell monitor only supports two refresh rates: 29.981 Hz and 59.997 Hz. Monitors meant for gaming will support higher refresh rates.

RESPONSE TIME
A customer reports that their gaming monitor is leaving ghost trails behind moving objects and that fast-moving characters appear blurry. This is probably due to an incorrect response time setting for the monitor. Adjusting this requires accessing the monitor's On-Screen Display (OSD) menu. This is the menu interface built into the monitor that you access using the physical buttons on the monitor itself.
At this point in the call, you will want to ask the customer for their monitor brand and model. Then you can do a quick search to find out how to change the response time for that particular monitor. In the context of fixing ghosting issues, you would use the OSD to find and adjust the "Response Time," "Overdrive," or similar setting, typically located in a gaming or performance section of the menu.

FRAMES PER SECOND FPS
A customer complains of screen tearing in video games where half of the image looks misaligned, especially, during fast movement.
You let the customer know that this could indicate the FPS need to be adjusted. If FPS is higher than the monitor's refresh rate, screen tearing (split images) can occur. If FPS is too low, motion may appear stuttered. Adaptive sync technologies (V-Sync, Free Sync, G-Sync) help to match FPS with refresh rate.
FPS adjustments are made in the settings of the installed graphics card. For NVIDIA cards, enable G-Syn in the NVIDA Control Panel. For AMD cards enable, Free Sync in the AMD Radeon Settings.

When an external monitor fails to display, check these potential causes:
-Power: Verify the monitor has power (check indicator lights). Try reseating or replacing the power cable if needed.
-Connections: Ensure display cables (HDMI, DisplayPort, USB-C) are securely connected at both ends. If using a docking station, verify it's powered and properly connected. Try a different cable to rule out cable issues.
-Windows Settings: To detect monitors, go to Settings > System > Display > Multiple Displays and click Detect. Alternatively, press Win+P and select Extend or Duplicate.
-Display Configuration: If monitors are detected but displaying improperly, adjust resolution in Settings > System > Display > Advanced display settings. Set the refresh rate to the highest supported value if experiencing flickering.
-System Reset: Restart your computer to reinitialize peripherals.
Drivers: Check Device Manager for display adapter driver updates or reinstall them if necessary.
-Hardware Testing: If the problems persist, test with a different monitor using the same connections to determine if the original monitor is faulty. Multiple failures may indicate issues with your computer's display output.

Despite continued efforts to create a perfectly secure operating system, vulnerabilities still exist. When a vulnerability is found, it can be used as basis for the creation of a virus or other malicious software. Measures can be taken to help prevent malicious software from infecting a computer system. The most common of these are operating system updates, firmware updates, antivirus, and antimalware.

IT support technicians should understand power management capabilities in Windows so that they can help customers optimize their devices. These features improve response times, reduce energy usage, and extend device lifespans. Knowing how to configure and troubleshoot these settings will help you resolve performance issues, maximize battery life, and implement energy-saving policies across your organization.

Power Options
Lid, power & sleep button controls, allow you to configures how a computer acts when power or sleep buttons are pressed, or the lid is closed. If users do not want to completely shut down a computer, the following options may be available:
-Do nothing - The computer continues to run at full power.
-Sleep - Documents, applications, and the state of the operating system are saved in RAM. This allows the computer to power on quickly, but uses power to retain the information in RAM.
-Hibernate - Documents, applications, and the state of the operating system are saved to a temporary file on the hard drive. With this option, the computer takes a little longer to power on than the Sleep state, but does not use any power to retain the information on the hard drive.
-Shut down - Shuts down the computer.
-Turn off the display - Computer runs at full power, but the display is turned off. This option is not shown in the figure because it is not available on laptops.

Energy Recommendations
Windows 11 offers enhanced power management that makes devices more energy-efficient and responsive. Select Energy recommendations in the Power & Battery screen to view all the recommendations, as shown in the figure.

Key Benefits:
Instant Wake: Modern Standby enables devices to wake almost immediately from sleep, eliminating traditional boot delays.
Background Processing During Sleep: Essential tasks like email syncing and security scans can run during sleep mode using waitable timers.
Component-Level Power Control: Unused hardware components power down individually while active ones continue functioning.
Extended Battery Life: Dynamic adjustments to CPU, screen brightness, and background processes conserve energy without compromising performance, reducing costs and extending hardware lifespan.

BitLocker is Microsoft's full disk encryption feature built into Windows operating systems that provides robust data protection for your computer. First introduced with Windows Vista, this security tool encrypts entire drives using advanced encryption standards, preventing unauthorized access to your data in case your device is lost, stolen, or compromised. By requiring authentication before decrypting the drive through a password, PIN, USB key, or TPM (Trusted Platform Module) chip, BitLocker creates a powerful barrier against data theft, giving users peace of mind that their sensitive information remains secure even if physical access to their device is obtained by malicious actors.
BitLocker recovery keys can be found in several places, depending on how your Windows system is set up:

Microsoft Account: If you're using a Microsoft account with your Windows device, recovery keys are typically saved there automatically. Check at account.microsoft.com/devices/recoverykey
Azure AD/Microsoft 365: In organizational settings, IT administrators may store BitLocker keys in Azure AD. Users might need to contact IT support.
Local storage: If saved locally, check for a text file containing the recovery key, often on an external USB drive or printed document created during BitLocker setup.
Group Policy: In business environments, recovery information might be stored according to organizational policy.

Windows Update is built into Windows and managed through the Settings app. It provides maintenance updates, critical updates, security patches, and optional driver or firmware updates. Microsoft releases security and reliability updates every second Tuesday of the month, a schedule known as Patch Tuesday.

There are several types of Windows updates

Quality Updates (Patch Tuesday Updates) – Released monthly with security and reliability fixes.
Feature Updates – Major updates introducing new functionality (e.g., Windows 10 to Windows 11 upgrades).
Driver and Firmware Updates – Updates for hardware components, sometimes included in Windows Update.
Optional Updates – Feature enhancements and non-security updates that require manual installation.
Windows automatically downloads and installs updates to make sure your device is secure and up to date. This means you receive the latest fixes and security updates, helping your device run efficiently and securely. In most cases, the only user interaction required is the restarting of your device to complete the update.

Manufacturers occasionally release new drivers to address issues with the current drivers. Check for updated drivers when your hardware does not work properly or to prevent future problems. It is also important to update drivers that patch or correct security problems. If a driver update does not work properly, use the Roll Back Driver feature in Device Manager to revert back to the previously installed driver. If it is not possible to roll back the drive, the button will be grayed out, as shown in the figure.

Firmware updates are less common than driver updates. Manufacturers release new firmware updates to address issues that might not be fixed with driver updates. Firmware updates can increase the speed of certain types of hardware, enable new features, or increase the stability of a product. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions carefully when performing a firmware update to avoid making the hardware unusable. Research the update completely because it might not be possible to revert to the original firmware.

Web browsers use caching to store webpage elements, such as images and scripts, to speed up loading times during subsequent visits. This process reduces the need to reload common elements every time a page is accessed, resulting in faster browsing and reduced bandwidth usage.

For IT support technicians, the Task Manager is an invaluable tool for quickly diagnosing and resolving issues. Whether it’s terminating an unresponsive application, monitoring resource usage, or identifying unnecessary startup programs, the Task Manager can help you streamline troubleshooting and improve the efficient operation of your customer's computer. The ability to end problematic tasks, disable rogue startup applications, and monitor system performance in real time makes it an essential utility for maintaining system health and ensuring optimal performance for users.

You can open Task Manager by right-clicking on the Taskbar and selecting the Task Manager entry or from the Windows+X menu. The CTRL-SHIFT-ESC key combination will also open Task Manager. Finally, Task Manager is also available on the screen that appears when you issue the CTRL-ALT-DEL key combination.

Start up apps 
This tab shows what processes that are automatically started during Windows startup. Windows also measures the relative impact each process has on the system's overall startup time. To keep a process from starting automatically, right-click on the process and disable its automatic startup.

Data loss is a common problem for users. A well-known saying in the tech world is, "There are two types of hard drives: those that will fail, and those that have already failed." Hardware failure, accidental deletion, and cyberattacks threaten personal data, making backups essential. While external drives and physical media were once standard, cloud storage now dominates backup solutions.
For Windows users, Microsoft OneDrive offers an integrated cloud backup solution.

Windows PCs typically have one of two different firmware that govern the boot sequence. Basic Input/Output System (BIOS), developed in the 1980s, is a simpler 16-bit firmware with limited features, while Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI), introduced in the early 2000s, offers a modern 64-bit architecture with enhanced security, graphical interfaces, and support for larger hard drives. You will most likely be working with computers that have UEFI firmware.
When a Windows PC starts up, it follows the boot sequence configured in the BIOS/UEFI settings. This sequence determines the order in which the system checks connected devices for bootable operating systems.
Typically, the primary hard drive is set as the default boot device, allowing the system to load Windows normally. However, there are situations where it becomes necessary to boot from an alternative device, such as a USB drive, external hard disk, or network source. This can be crucial for installing new software, running diagnostic tools, or performing system recovery.
Hard drives, network drives, USB drives, and even removable media can be used to boot the computer, depending on the capabilities of the motherboard. Some BIOS also have a boot device priority menu that is accessed with a special key during computer startup. 

Safe Mode is essential for diagnosing Windows problems like crashes or restarts. It runs only critical system components while disabling third-party drivers and non-essential services, creating a stable environment for troubleshooting.

If issues disappear in Safe Mode, third-party software is likely the culprit. If problems persist, the core Windows system may be affected.
To change the boot order on your system, you will need to access Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) or the legacy Basic Input Output System (BIOS).


UEFI is the software that is designed to replace the legacy Basic Input Output System (BIOS). The UEFI comes with additional benefits, such as improved security, faster boot times, and large capacity hard drive support.

The Basic Input Output System (BIOS) is the low-level software that is located on one of the chips of the motherboard. The BIOS is responsible for essential functions, such as booting and keyboard control. The BIOS also configures the hard drive, CPU and memory and other related equipment.

OS COMPARISON 
Linux differs from Windows and macOS in key aspects such as architecture, licensing, customization, security, and use cases. Unlike proprietary Windows and macOS, Linux is open-source, allowing users to modify and distribute its code freely. It is generally free, whereas Windows requires a purchased license, and macOS is tied to Apple hardware.
Linux offers extensive customization, including modifications to the kernel and interface, whereas Windows and macOS provide limited flexibility.
Linux follows a hierarchical file system, unlike Windows’ drive-letter system, and has strong security due to strict user permissions.
While Linux relies on package managers for software installation, it lacks native support for major commercial applications like MS Office.
The command line is central to Linux, whereas Windows and macOS emphasize graphical interfaces with command line options available.
Linux is efficient on a wide range of hardware, making it ideal for servers, security applications, and developers, while Windows dominates general consumer and gaming markets, and macOS is favored by creative professionals.
Windows is the most common in offices and enterprises, macOS is popular among creative professionals and Apple users, and Linux powers servers, cybersecurity tools, and development environments. Understanding all three ensures you can provide effective support, resolve compatibility issues, and assist users across various platforms.

Computer systems need periodic preventive maintenance to ensure best performance. Maintenance tasks should be scheduled and performed frequently to prevent or detect problems early. To avoid missing maintenance tasks due to human error, computer systems can be programmed to perform tasks automatically. Two tasks that should be scheduled and performed automatically are backups and disk checks.

Backups and disk checks are usually time-consuming tasks. An additional benefit of scheduled maintenance tasks is that it allows the computer to perform these tasks when no one is using the system. The CLI utility known as cron, can schedule these tasks during off-peak hours.

In Linux and macOS, the cron service is responsible for scheduled tasks. As a service, cron runs in the background and executes tasks at specific dates and times. cron uses a schedule table called a cron table that can be edited with the crontab command.

Also known as patches, OS updates are released periodically by OS companies to address any known vulnerability in their operating systems. While companies have update schedules, the release of unscheduled OS updates is common when a major vulnerability is found in the OS code. Modern operating systems will alert the user when updates are available for download and installation, but the user can check for updates at any time.

Firmware Updates
Usually held in non-volatile memory, such as ROM or Flash, firmware is a type of software designed to provide low-level functionality for a device. Check for firmware updates with the manufacturer and update the system if new versions are available.

Antivirus and Antimalware
In general, antivirus and antimalware rely on code signatures to operate. Signatures or signature files are files containing a sample of the code used by viruses and malware. Based on these signature files, antivirus and antimalware scan the contents of a computer disk comparing the contents of the files stored on the disk with the samples stored in the signature file. If a match is found, the antivirus or antimalware alerts the user of the possible presence of malware. New malware is created and released every day; therefore, the signature files of antivirus and antimalware programs must be updated just as frequently.

Virtualization allows you to create and run a virtual version of a computer system inside another system. Instead of needing separate physical machines, virtualization lets you run multiple operating systems on a single computer.
Software such as VirtualBox allows you to create a virtual machine (VM). This is a virtual environment that mimics a real computer. The physical computer (your Mac or Windows PC) is called the host, and the virtual computer (Ubuntu for example) is called the Guest.

One major advantage of virtualization is overall reduced cost:
Less equipment is required: Virtualization enables server consolidation, which requires fewer physical devices and lowers maintenance costs.
Less energy is consumed: Consolidating servers lowers the monthly power and cooling costs.
Less space is required: Server consolidation reduces the amount of required floor space.

These are additional benefits of virtualization:
Easier prototyping: Self-contained labs, operating on isolated networks, can be rapidly created for testing and prototyping network deployments.
Faster server provisioning: Creating a virtual server is far faster than provisioning a physical server.
Increased server uptime: Most server virtualization platforms now offer advanced redundant fault tolerance features.
Improved disaster recovery: Most enterprise server virtualization platforms have software that can help test and automate failover before a disaster happens.
Legacy support: Virtualization can extend the life of OSs and applications providing more time for organizations to migrate to newer solutions.
Security: Virtualization can increase security, because virtual instances and environments are isolated from one another even if they are on the same physical machine.

HYPERVISORS 
The hypervisor is a program, firmware, or hardware that adds an abstraction layer on top of the physical hardware. The abstraction layer is used to create VMs. The hypervisor allocates hardware (CPU, memory, disk controllers, and networking) from the physical machine to the VM. Each of these VMs runs a complete and separate operating system.

Type 1 Hypervisor - “Bare Metal” Approach
Type 1 hypervisors are also called the “bare metal” approach because the hypervisor is installed directly on the hardware. Type 1 hypervisors are usually used on enterprise servers and data center networking devices.

Type 2 Hypervisor - “Hosted” Approach
A Type 2 hypervisor is software that creates and runs VM instances. The computer, on which a hypervisor is supporting one or more VMs, is a host machine. Type 2 hypervisors are also called hosted hypervisors. This is because the hypervisor is installed on top of the existing OS, such as macOS, Windows, or Linux. Then, one or more additional OS instances are installed on top of the hypervisor, as shown in the figure. A big advantage of Type 2 hypervisors is that management console software is not required.

GUI vs CLI Graphical User Interface vs Command Line Interface
While graphical user interfaces (GUIs) are intuitive and user-friendly, CLIs can provide quicker, more flexible, and efficient system management, especially useful for repetitive or complex administrative tasks. Some devices only allow management through CLI commands.
Common tasks that benefit from CLI use include batch file management, network configurations, and running diagnostic tools.

Linux prompts generally follow this structure:
user@hostname /home/user/Desktop $
In the above prompt:
user is the name of the logged-in user.
hostname is the name of the system or host.
/home/user/Desktop is the current working directory.
$ indicates a normal user prompt (a # symbol typically indicates the root user).

Absolute and Relative Paths
Paths help navigate and identify file locations:
Absolute path: Starts at the root directory (Linux: /) or with a drive letter (Windows).
Relative path: Defined based on the current working directory; it doesn't begin with the root directory or drive letter.
For example, the following is an example of an absolute path:
/home/user/Desktop

CLI Command Structure
Commands entered in the CLI typically consist of three components: commands, options, and arguments.
Commands identify the utility or action to be performed.
Options are optional parameters that modify the behavior of the command, usually indicated by a dash (-).
Arguments provide additional information that guides the command's function and may sometimes be required for execution.
Example: ls -l /home/user
Explanation:
-Command: ls, the utility executed that is a listing of files and directories
-Option: -l, an optional parameter to list files in a detailed, long format
-Argument: /home/student, specifying the directory path you want to list

Simulation tools like Syntax Checker typically do not have all the functionality of real equipment. In each Syntax Checker, you are given a set of instructions to enter a specific set of commands. You cannot progress in Syntax Checker unless the exact and full command is entered as specified. If you are having difficulty, select the Show Me button and Syntax Checker will supply the answer. You can Reset at any time to restart the activity. The Show All button will display the entire activity.

Common Display Terms for macOS:
Retina Display: A high-resolution screen found on MacBooks and iMacs that makes text, and images look sharper by increasing pixel density.
Resolution: The number of pixels on the screen. Having a higher resolution will give sharper images and text. Retina displays often use a scaled resolution to balance clarity and screen space.
Refresh Rate: How many times per second the screen updates (measured in Hz). Most Mac displays use a refresh rate of 60Hz. A higher refresh rate reduces flickering and gives a smoother motion. Apple Silicon Macs often support variable refresh rates called ProMotion that allows a display to adjust its refresh rate to suite the content being viewed.
Scaling: Adjusts the size of text and UI elements on Retina displays without changing resolution. A scaled resolution can make text appear larger or allow more content to fit on the screen.
Night Shift: Reduces blue light in the evening by shifting the display to a warmer color tone, helping reduce eye strain.
True Tone: Uses sensors to adjust the screen’s color temperature based on ambient lighting, making the display look more natural in different environments.

Text or image too large? Scenario: A user complains, “The text on my Mac is way too small to read, and I can’t find a way to fix it.”
What to do:
Open System Settings > Displays and select a resolution, 

Unrecognised Monitor? Scenario: A user says: “I just connected a second monitor, but my Mac isn’t recognizing it.”
What to do:
First, check the HDMI, USB-C, or Thunderbolt connection. If the cable is secure but the display is still not detected, guide the user to System Settings > Displays and click Detect Displays. If the issue continues, restarting the Mac while the external monitor is plugged in often resolves the problem.

Screen flikering or glitching? Scenario: A user reports, “My screen keeps flashing randomly, and sometimes I see weird lines.”
What to do:
First, check if the refresh rate is set correctly in System Settings >Displays, as shown in the figure. If flickering continues, have the user turn off True Tone and Night Shift, as these features adjust colors dynamically. If the issue persists, booting into Safe Mode (holding Shift while restarting) helps determine if third-party software is causing the problem

Brightness Issues? Scenario: A user asks, “Why is my screen too dark even when I turn the brightness up?”
What to do:
Instruct the user to adjust brightness using the F1 (decrease) and F2 (increase) keys or in System Settings > Displays. Users may also adjust the brightness from the Control Center. If the brightness changes unexpectedly, have them turn off Automatically adjust brightness, as shown in the figure, and check if True Tone or Night Shift is affecting the display.

Where Do External Drive Show Up on macOS?

The Desktop: It should appear as an icon on the desktop
Finder Sidebar: Under “Locations”, it may appear as a connected device
Disk Utility: Built-in macOS tool that shows all connected drives, even ones that won’t mount properly.
macOS is designed to recognize and mount external drives automatically. Sometimes a drive does not appear as expected though. This can happen for various reasons such as a hardware connection issue, software settings, or problems with the file system on the drive. There are several troubleshooting steps that can help resolve these issues.

Browser
As an IT support technician, a common issue you will troubleshoot is webpages loading slowly or not properly. There are several reasons of why this may be happening, such as too many tabs open, slow internet connection, or an excessive amount of cached data.

Airdrop
AirDrop is a quick and easy way to share files, photos, and more between Apple devices. It uses Bluetooth to discover nearby devices and Wi-Fi to transfer files. But sometimes, AirDrop doesn’t work as expected.

ACTIVITY MONITOR
Sometimes, an app or process may freeze or become unresponsive. When this happens, closing it the normal way won’t work. That’s when you use Activity Monitor to force it to quit, freeing up system resources and getting the Mac back to normal.

When and How to Terminate a Process
Sometimes users will need to use Activity Monitor to terminate a process. Users should consider terminating a process when:
An application becomes unresponsive or freezes
A process is consuming excessive CPU or memory
A background process is affecting system performance

To prevent losing important files like photos, documents, and apps on macOS, Apple provides two main ways to back up data: iCloud and Time Machine.

Time Machine is a backup feature built into macOS. It saves copies of your files to an external hard drive. Time Machine creates full system backups, meaning you can restore your Mac exactly as it was at certain point in time. Time Machine backs up:
The entire macOS system, including settings
All files and apps
Different versions of files, allowing recovery of older copies

POWER MANAGEMENT 
Power management is an important part of keeping your Mac running efficiently. It helps balance performance and battery life as well as reduce energy consumption. When users experience battery drain, unexpected shutdowns, or sleep mode issues, they may turn to you for help. Understanding macOS power management settings and troubleshooting common power issues is essential to assisting them effectively.

OPEN SOURCE VS CLOSED SOURCE 
Before users can analyze and modify software, they must be able to see the source code. Source code is the sequence of instructions that is written in human readable language, before it is turned into machine language (zeroes and ones). The source code is an important component of free software as it allows the users to analyze and eventually modify the code. When the developer chooses to provide the source code, the software is said to be open source. If the program’s source code is not published, the software is said to be closed source.

Andriod is open source while apple is closed source
Problems that users experience with their mobile devices are often a combination of hardware and software malfunctions. Most smartphones and tablets contain many of the same standard hardware components.
Internal components include processor, memory, storage, battery, and sensors. Connectivity components contained inside the device include:
Cellular Modem: Connects to cellular networks for calls and data (4G, 5G).
Wi-Fi Module: Connects to wireless internet networks.
Bluetooth Module: Connects to wireless accessories.
NFC (Near Field Communication) Module: Used for contactless payments and data transfer.
GPS Module: Provides location tracking and navigation.

Mobile Device Management (MDM) refers to software solutions that help organizations control, secure, and manage mobile devices like smartphones, tablets, and laptops. For IT Support desks, MDM is an essential tool that allows technicians to remotely monitor devices, enforce security policies, and manage applications across both company-owned and personal devices (BYOD). If you get hired as an IT support technician for a large organization, you will most likely be trained to use their implementation of an MDM. The figure shows the Cisco Meraki dashboard for managing all the wired and wireless devices in the organization. Key features include device enrollment, security configuration enforcement, remote app management, remote wiping capabilities, and compliance monitoring.

Performance Issues
Crashes and Freezes: Apps may crash or freeze unexpectedly, disrupting user experience. 
Slow Loading Times: Apps can take a long time to load, which can be frustrating for users. 

CLOUD COMPUTING SERVICES 
As you start exploring cloud computing, you'll quickly notice three big players dominating the market: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).
Choose AWS if you're looking for the broadest set of services, market maturity, and reliability.
Choose Azure if you're already committed to Microsoft solutions, or need a smooth enterprise integration.
Choose GCP if your main focus is innovation around data, analytics, AI/ML, or open-source and cloud-native technologies.

Cloud service providers can provide various services tailored to meet customer requirements. However, most cloud computing services can be categorized into three main cloud computing services as defined by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in their Special Publication (800-145). PaaS, IaaS and SaaS. 

Software as a Service (SaaS)
The cloud provider provides access to services, such as email, calendar, communication, and office tools over the Internet on a subscription basis. Users access the software using a browser or locally installed app. Local apps on a device may access these services transparently. Advantages include minimal upfront costs for customers and immediate application availability. SaaS providers include Salesforce customer management relationship (CRM) software, Microsoft Office 365, MS SharePoint software, Google Workspace and iCloud.
Software applications (e.g., email, Office 365, Google Apps) are provided over the network on a subscription basis
Typically used by end users.

Platform as a Service (PaaS)
The cloud provider provides access to operating systems, development tools, programming languages, and libraries used to develop, test, and deliver applications. This is useful to application developers. The cloud provider manages the underlying network, servers, and cloud infrastructure. PaaS providers include Amazon Web Service, Oracle Cloud, Google Cloud Platform and Microsoft Azure.
Includes tools and services used to deliver the applications
Includes OS and applications stack
Typically requested by application and software developers

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
The cloud provider manages the network and provides organizations access to network equipment, virtualized network services, storage, software, and supporting network infrastructure. There are many advantages for organizations to adopt IaaS. Organizations do not need to invest in capital equipment and only pay for usage on-demand. The provider network includes redundancy and eliminates a single point of failure in the provider network infrastructure. The network can also scale seamlessly based on current requirements. IaaS providers include Amazon Web Service and Microsoft Azure.
Includes network, computers (virtual or dedicated), and storage
Typically used by organization infrastructure and network architects

Cloud Models
There are four primary cloud models:
Public clouds: Cloud-based applications and services offered in a public cloud are made available to the general population. Services may be free or are offered on a pay-per-use model, such as paying for online storage. The public cloud uses the internet to provide services.
Private clouds: Cloud-based applications and services offered in a private cloud are intended for a specific organization or entity, such as the government. A private cloud can be set up using the private network of an organization, though this can be expensive to build and maintain. A private cloud can also be managed by an outside organization with strict access security.
Hybrid clouds: A hybrid cloud is made up of two or more clouds (example: part private, part public), where each part remains a separate object, but both are connected using a single architecture. Individuals on a hybrid cloud would be able to have degrees of access to various services based on user access rights.
Community clouds: A community cloud is created for exclusive use by a specific community. The differences between public clouds and community clouds are the functional needs that have been customized for the community. For example, healthcare organizations must remain compliant with policies and laws (e.g., HIPAA) that require special authentication and confidentiality.

PRACTICAL 
Fixed - Grainy display using the Adjust ClearType text which I enabled in the settings 

POWER FIXES
1- Uninstalled the battery driver ❌ did not solve the problem 
2-Installed BIOS
3- Did not fix battery issues 

